<html><head><meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="content-type"><style type="text/css">.lst-kix_b8tze5laokyu-6>li:before{content:"\0025cf  "}.lst-kix_b8tze5laokyu-5>li:before{content:"\0025a0  "}.lst-kix_b8tze5laokyu-4>li:before{content:"\0025cb  "}.lst-kix_b8tze5laokyu-7>li:before{content:"\0025cb  "}.lst-kix_b8tze5laokyu-8>li:before{content:"\0025a0  "}.lst-kix_7eehgq5d0vzc-1>li:before{content:"\0025cb  "}.lst-kix_7eehgq5d0vzc-2>li:before{content:"\0025a0  "}.lst-kix_7eehgq5d0vzc-7>li:before{content:"\0025cb  "}.lst-kix_7eehgq5d0vzc-0>li:before{content:"\0025cf  "}.lst-kix_7eehgq5d0vzc-8>li:before{content:"\0025a0  "}.lst-kix_b8tze5laokyu-2>li:before{content:"\0025a0  "}.lst-kix_b8tze5laokyu-1>li:before{content:"\0025cb  "}.lst-kix_b8tze5laokyu-3>li:before{content:"\0025cf  "}.lst-kix_7eehgq5d0vzc-6>li:before{content:"\0025cf  "}.lst-kix_7eehgq5d0vzc-5>li:before{content:"\0025a0  "}ul.lst-kix_7eehgq5d0vzc-6{list-style-type:none}ul.lst-kix_7eehgq5d0vzc-7{list-style-type:none}ul.lst-kix_7eehgq5d0vzc-4{list-style-type:none}ul.lst-kix_7eehgq5d0vzc-5{list-style-type:none}.lst-kix_b8tze5laokyu-0>li:before{content:"\0025cf  "}ul.lst-kix_7eehgq5d0vzc-2{list-style-type:none}.lst-kix_7eehgq5d0vzc-3>li:before{content:"\0025cf  "}ul.lst-kix_7eehgq5d0vzc-3{list-style-type:none}ul.lst-kix_7eehgq5d0vzc-0{list-style-type:none}.lst-kix_7eehgq5d0vzc-4>li:before{content:"\0025cb  "}ul.lst-kix_7eehgq5d0vzc-1{list-style-type:none}ul.lst-kix_7eehgq5d0vzc-8{list-style-type:none}.lst-kix_o5wwzr8j91d4-1>li:before{content:"\0025cb  "}ul.lst-kix_b8tze5laokyu-8{list-style-type:none}ul.lst-kix_o5wwzr8j91d4-0{list-style-type:none}.lst-kix_o5wwzr8j91d4-2>li:before{content:"\0025a0  "}ul.lst-kix_o5wwzr8j91d4-3{list-style-type:none}ul.lst-kix_o5wwzr8j91d4-4{list-style-type:none}ul.lst-kix_o5wwzr8j91d4-1{list-style-type:none}ul.lst-kix_o5wwzr8j91d4-2{list-style-type:none}ul.lst-kix_o5wwzr8j91d4-7{list-style-type:none}ul.lst-kix_o5wwzr8j91d4-8{list-style-type:none}.lst-kix_o5wwzr8j91d4-0>li:before{content:"\0025cf  "}ul.lst-kix_o5wwzr8j91d4-5{list-style-type:none}ul.lst-kix_o5wwzr8j91d4-6{list-style-type:none}.lst-kix_o5wwzr8j91d4-7>li:before{content:"\0025cb  "}.lst-kix_o5wwzr8j91d4-6>li:before{content:"\0025cf  "}ul.lst-kix_b8tze5laokyu-3{list-style-type:none}ul.lst-kix_b8tze5laokyu-2{list-style-type:none}ul.lst-kix_b8tze5laokyu-1{list-style-type:none}ul.lst-kix_b8tze5laokyu-0{list-style-type:none}.lst-kix_o5wwzr8j91d4-3>li:before{content:"\0025cf  "}.lst-kix_o5wwzr8j91d4-5>li:before{content:"\0025a0  "}ul.lst-kix_b8tze5laokyu-7{list-style-type:none}ul.lst-kix_b8tze5laokyu-6{list-style-type:none}li.li-bullet-0:before{margin-left:-18pt;white-space:nowrap;display:inline-block;min-width:18pt}ul.lst-kix_b8tze5laokyu-5{list-style-type:none}ul.lst-kix_b8tze5laokyu-4{list-style-type:none}.lst-kix_o5wwzr8j91d4-4>li:before{content:"\0025cb  "}.lst-kix_o5wwzr8j91d4-8>li:before{content:"\0025a0  "}ol{margin:0;padding:0}table td,table th{padding:0}.c6{margin-left:72pt;padding-top:0pt;padding-left:0pt;padding-bottom:0pt;line-height:1.15;orphans:2;widows:2;text-align:left}.c1{margin-left:36pt;padding-top:0pt;padding-left:0pt;padding-bottom:0pt;line-height:1.15;orphans:2;widows:2;text-align:left}.c4{padding-top:18pt;padding-bottom:6pt;line-height:1.15;page-break-after:avoid;orphans:2;widows:2;text-align:left}.c2{color:#000000;font-weight:400;text-decoration:none;vertical-align:baseline;font-size:16pt;font-family:"Arial";font-style:normal}.c0{color:#000000;font-weight:400;text-decoration:none;vertical-align:baseline;font-size:11pt;font-family:"Arial";font-style:normal}.c8{padding-top:0pt;padding-bottom:0pt;line-height:1.15;orphans:2;widows:2;text-align:left}.c9{text-decoration-skip-ink:none;-webkit-text-decoration-skip:none;color:#1155cc;text-decoration:underline}.c7{background-color:#ffffff;max-width:468pt;padding:72pt 72pt 72pt 72pt}.c5{padding:0;margin:0}.c3{color:inherit;text-decoration:inherit}.title{padding-top:0pt;color:#000000;font-size:26pt;padding-bottom:3pt;font-family:"Arial";line-height:1.15;page-break-after:avoid;orphans:2;widows:2;text-align:left}.subtitle{padding-top:0pt;color:#666666;font-size:15pt;padding-bottom:16pt;font-family:"Arial";line-height:1.15;page-break-after:avoid;orphans:2;widows:2;text-align:left}li{color:#000000;font-size:11pt;font-family:"Arial"}p{margin:0;color:#000000;font-size:11pt;font-family:"Arial"}h1{padding-top:20pt;color:#000000;font-size:20pt;padding-bottom:6pt;font-family:"Arial";line-height:1.15;page-break-after:avoid;orphans:2;widows:2;text-align:left}h2{padding-top:18pt;color:#000000;font-size:16pt;padding-bottom:6pt;font-family:"Arial";line-height:1.15;page-break-after:avoid;orphans:2;widows:2;text-align:left}h3{padding-top:16pt;color:#434343;font-size:14pt;padding-bottom:4pt;font-family:"Arial";line-height:1.15;page-break-after:avoid;orphans:2;widows:2;text-align:left}h4{padding-top:14pt;color:#666666;font-size:12pt;padding-bottom:4pt;font-family:"Arial";line-height:1.15;page-break-after:avoid;orphans:2;widows:2;text-align:left}h5{padding-top:12pt;color:#666666;font-size:11pt;padding-bottom:4pt;font-family:"Arial";line-height:1.15;page-break-after:avoid;orphans:2;widows:2;text-align:left}h6{padding-top:12pt;color:#666666;font-size:11pt;padding-bottom:4pt;font-family:"Arial";line-height:1.15;page-break-after:avoid;font-style:italic;orphans:2;widows:2;text-align:left}</style></head><body class="c7"><h2 class="c4" id="h.2m1dn5ehdbdl"><span class="c2">Participants</span></h2><p class="c8"><span class="c0">Noam Helfman, Nic Jansma, Tom McKee, Annie Sullivan, Sean Feng, Katie Hempenius, Benjamin de Kosnik, Steven Bougon, Nicolas Pena Moreno, Andrew Galloni, Ryosuke Niwa</span></p><h2 class="c4" id="h.dtqo2ii5xxaa"><span class="c2">Open Meeting around A/B testing - Feb 4th 12-2:30pm PST</span></h2><h2 class="c4" id="h.3jvjpibegl9e"><span class="c2">Next call - Feb 18th</span></h2><h2 class="c4" id="h.8ogpig85etqg"><span class="c2">Resource Timing Tests - Tom McKee</span></h2><ul class="c5 lst-kix_b8tze5laokyu-0 start"><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">Tom: Leading a project to increase test coverage to reduce amount of security bugs. Also want to clean up the tests</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">... Wanted to give a heads up to folks if anyone wants to get involved</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">Nic: Is the goal to have a proposal to replace the current tests?</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">Tom: More patching the current test suites, and covering more edge cases. Once the tests are in a consistent state, we can increase coverage</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">Nic: Github issue?</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span>Tom: We have a doc, not sure if public. </span><span>We can open an issue</span></li></ul><ul class="c5 lst-kix_b8tze5laokyu-1 start"><li class="c6 li-bullet-0"><span class="c9"><a class="c3" href="https://www.google.com/url?q=https://github.com/w3c/resource-timing/issues/254&amp;sa=D&amp;source=editors&amp;ust=1612885972023000&amp;usg=AOvVaw13RsQIV6zpraQNZQzFjzns">https://github.com/w3c/resource-timing/issues/254</a></span></li></ul><ul class="c5 lst-kix_b8tze5laokyu-0"><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">Nic: That&rsquo;d be a good starting point.</span></li></ul><h2 class="c4" id="h.rwtpspmezuq4"><span class="c9"><a class="c3" href="https://www.google.com/url?q=https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1-gckm8YTJfDnXa_Td8_mWbFDEITtH5CsKOoRKwg4JIM/edit%23slide%3Did.p&amp;sa=D&amp;source=editors&amp;ust=1612885972024000&amp;usg=AOvVaw2cGjm93T5JWtcMQhWBBg-O">BFCache proposal</a></span><span class="c2">&nbsp;- Yoav Weiss</span></h2><ul class="c5 lst-kix_7eehgq5d0vzc-0 start"><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">Yoav: We had previously discussed this at TPAC, more concrete proposal now</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">... We want to align metrics with UX, including BFCache</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">... Want to make these visible to RUM</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">... Fire new entries rather than override old ones</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">... Single time origin for all navigation</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">... Proposal: New NavigationTiming entry, queued on both PerformanceTimeline and PerformanceObserver</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">... Adding new NavigationType</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">... Not updating the L1 performance interface (performance.timing)</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">... NavigationType.back_forward_cache</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">... Spec changes: Queue a PerfNavTimingEntry from HTML&#39;s history traversal algorithm</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">... PaintTiming: New entry, back_forward_cache_paint, queued first paint after BF Cache happens</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">... Spec changes for indicating BFCache paint should be reported</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">... Plus updates to PaintTiming to use that flag</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">... Thoughts on First Input Delay.</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">... One option is to reduce the threshold of EventTiming entries after BFCache so it always appears. &nbsp;Similar to PaintTiming.</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">... Or we could file multiple &quot;first input delay&quot; entries. &nbsp;Might need compat research.</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">... Or we can file a new entry for &quot;BFCache FID&quot;</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">... For LCP, it&#39;s likely to be similar to the FP/FCP there, so probably don&#39;t fire it</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">Sean: For PaintTiming, have you thought about expanding existing FP to have an attribute mentioning it&#39;s bfcache instead of a new entry</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">Yoav: It&#39;s not a new entry type, it&#39;s still &quot;paint&quot; entryType but there will be a &quot;.name=back_forward_cache_paint&quot;</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">Sean: Another question I have, around reducing the threshold for FID, have you thought what the threshold would be? &nbsp;At TPAC we had discussed the threshold a bit and were concerned it was already too low in some cases.</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">Yoav: Not considering the threshold of good vs. bad FID, instead today we don&#39;t fire EvenTiming entries for every event, just the ones we consider slow (over 50ms). &nbsp;That threshold is possibly customizable up to a certain point. &nbsp;What I&#39;m suggesting is after a BFCache we&#39;ll always fire an EventTiming entry, regardless of the duration of the event.</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">Nic: Are you aware of any analytics providers that monitor BF Cache today?</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">Yoav: Not aware of anyone today, if they did, they&#39;d need to monitor pageshow/pagehide events</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">Nic: For the question of FID and how that looks, and you proposed a new entry to be able to monitor it. &nbsp;It seems reasonable for any analytics provider today that wants to start paying attention to bfcache events, then it&#39;s reasonable to ask them to listen to new events</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">Yoav: Main concern is that would be something unique for FID, the other ones are just new types.</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">Nic: You&#39;re saying for consistency the other ones just have new names</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">Nicolas: Name is used for the type today (event type, like &#39;mousedown&#39;)</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">Benjamin: For the LCP slide, and the note at the bottom about how we may want to tackle this in the future</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">... For me it seems safer to say we are going to refire all this stuff, instead of saying this may happen just for BFCache</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">Yoav: In the SPA navigation case, yes we may need to re-fire those. &nbsp;I&#39;m not sure we have enough insight into what that may look like</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">... Concerned about solving a problem we don&#39;t fully understand here with LCP</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">... How will developers be able to distinguish from LCP for nav1 to LCP for nav2</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">... That would potentially change based on the shape of the API we decide for SPAs</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">... It&#39;s a problem we&#39;ll need to solve, and I don&#39;t think there are advantages to solving it now before it&#39;s relevant</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">Benjamin: Downside is we&#39;re introducing a special case for a special nav</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">... The path of least resistance is to re-fire and maybe re-fire for SPAs too</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">Nicolas: For LCP we can&#39;t just re-fire one entry, you&#39;ll need to iterate over all entries and use the largest one, so it would need to be a new entry type</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">Noam: Maybe add another property that indicates the type of LCP or timing</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">Yoav: Right now the current libraries that capture LCP (and the advice we give) is just to iterate over the array and the last entry is the LCP. &nbsp;Once we introduce new navigation, that will change.</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">... Maybe what we should do is think about way of changing that so future LCP entries would be compatible</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">Noam: So is the challenge to change the guidance?</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">Yoav: Challenge is for people to change their website to the new guidance. &nbsp;Webcompat changes are hard.</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">... If we were introduce a new type, we could tell people to look for the type or boolean, or use FinalLCP</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">Nicolas: Most analytics providers don&#39;t wait for unload so we&#39;re not going with FinalLCP</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">Ryosuke: One option would be to make it opt-in</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">Yoav: Equiv would be a new entryType that would be observed</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">Ryosuke: Or new global function to observe more types</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">Nic: Along those lines I&#39;m wondering how many analytics packages actually track events post-pagehide-pageshow, since many may not be paying attention anyways</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">Yoav: Could use some research for that</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">Ryosuke: I echo Mozilla&#39;s viewpoint about adding a BFCache specific entry, assuming we make progress on SPA reporting a year or two for now, I think we need to figure out a solution that solves both.</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">... We should try to reduce the complexity of the buffer, not increase it</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">Yoav: At the same time, I don&#39;t think if we simply say LCP doesn&#39;t fire in BFCache cases, because it doesn&#39;t really make sense, I don&#39;t think it increases the developer complexity in this specific case. &nbsp;And we can add it later if we think it&#39;s reasonable to add.</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">Nicolas: Maybe it could be good to highlight how it would be extended for other navs like soft navs/portals.</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">Ryosuke: We need to have a consistent story here</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">Yoav: For the new NavigationType we&#39;re just adding a new entry</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">... For paint timing, we&#39;re adding a new entry name</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">... Neither seem to constrain us for future types</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">... For FID, we need to make sure whatever we do there is consistent with what we have with EventTiming. &nbsp;Favorable to fire whatever we have.</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">Ryosuke: I want to think about how other types fit into this picture</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">Annie: Maybe outside of this we could take any interested parties to think about how other navigation types could be represented here.</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">Nic: Sounds like a great idea, and we&#39;d be interested as an analytics provider</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">Benjamin: Sounds good to think through a grid of the types what the differences are for these metrics</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">Yoav: Generally makes sense, the various performance entries have a consistency problem. &nbsp;For example, .name is used for different things in different entries.</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">... For web compat, we&#39;ll have a problem changing what we&#39;ve already shipped</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">... Though that brings the N+1 problem where shipping a new thing always leaves the old thing behind</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">... Instead of using .name in one and .type in another, if we could use a single property that could be better</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">Nicolas: Ryosuke&#39;s idea to have a method, which is a mechanism so that they&#39;re always linked</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">Yoav: Entry Name is one of the biggest sources of inconsistency, for RT it&#39;s URL, for ET it&#39;s the event name</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">... Adding new entries is fine, but today we can&#39;t use a single attribute to denote it</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">Nic: We could add a new attribute that links to the NT entry it belongs to</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">Ryosuke: One edge case to consider if BFCache navigation happens while other forms of navigation are ongoing</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">Yoav: BFCache nav time would be after the start but before the end of a navigation</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">Ryosuke: It happens a lot</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">Nic: Not only bfcache navigation, but also possibly soft navs</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">... There could be overlapping navigation happening</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">Yoav: So idea to possibly point to specific NT entry might help</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">Nic: Seems like there&#39;s a balance between not confusing existing applications and being able to add data we want to support these scenarios. &nbsp;If we&#39;re really concerned about not confusing, the easiest way is to just add new things to pay attention to.</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">Ryosuke: Study between how different forms of navigation happen within a website. &nbsp;We need to have some sort of mental model.</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">... Make sure the API is such that if we get the data, we can discern different types of navigations</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">... So as to not get confused about which navigation the first paint is associated with</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">Yoav: A direct pointer may be a way to disambiguate that</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">... Would have to create new entries that people specifically observe</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">Ryosuke: For Soft Nav, if the user is on A and goes to B, and the user goes back to A, in abstract the page load of A &quot;continued&quot; while B was loaded, and A&#39;s requests won&#39;t necessarily be cancelled. &nbsp;Not all apps, but for some apps that may make sense</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">... We need to have a better understanding of how these navigation happen on each website and how they want to treat them -- what their models are</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">Yoav: I explicitly don&#39;t want to have to solve anything someone would want to do in the future in order to solve a problem we already understand well</span></li><li class="c1 li-bullet-0"><span class="c0">Ryosuke: Would be useful to have a mental model for how all of those fit together</span></li></ul></body></html>